README.md, before:

Django solid_i18n urls
=====

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls?branch=master)

solid_i18n contains middleware and url patterns to enable i18n urls without redirects.

With solid_i18n, default language will be used for request
without language prefix. Non default languages works same as builtin [i18n_patterns](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#django.conf.urls.i18n.i18n_patterns).

Supports django 1.4, 1.5; python 2.6, 2.7.


Quick start
-----------

1. Install this package to your python distribution:

        - pip install git+https://github.com/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls.git

        or

        - git clone https://github.com/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls
        - cd django-solid-i18n-urls
        - python setup.py install

2. Set languages in settings.py:

        # Default language, that will be used for requests without language prefix
        LANGUAGE_CODE = 'en'

        # supported languages
        LANGUAGES = (
            ('en', 'English'),
            ('ru', 'Russian'),
        )

        # enable django translation
        USE_I18N = True

3. Add `SolidLocaleMiddleware` instead of [LocaleMiddleware](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#how-django-discovers-language-preference) to `MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`:

        MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
           'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware',
           'solid_i18n.middleware.SolidLocaleMiddleware',
           'django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
        )

4. Use `solid_i18n_patterns` instead of [i18n_patterns](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#django.conf.urls.i18n.i18n_patterns)

        from django.conf.urls import patterns, include, url
        from solid_i18n.urls import solid_i18n_patterns

        urlpatterns = patterns(''
            url(r'^sitemap\.xml$', 'sitemap.view', name='sitemap_xml'),
        )

        news_patterns = patterns(''
            url(r'^$', 'news.views.index', name='index'),
            url(r'^category/(?P<slug>[\w-]+)/$', 'news.views.category', name='category'),
            url(r'^(?P<slug>[\w-]+)/$', 'news.views.details', name='detail'),
        )

        urlpatterns += solid_i18n_patterns('',
            url(r'^about/$', 'about.view', name='about'),
            url(r'^news/', include(news_patterns, namespace='news')),
        )

5. Start the development server and visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/about/ to see English content. Visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/ru/about/ to see Russian content. Of course, you must specify translation for all languages you've marked as supported. For details look here: [https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/)

Commit message:

add SOLID_I18N_USE_REDIRECTS option to enable redirects

README.md, after:

Django solid_i18n urls
=====

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls?branch=master)

solid_i18n contains middleware and url patterns to use default language at root path (without language prefix).

With solid_i18n, default language will be used for request
without language prefix. Non default languages works same as builtin [i18n_patterns](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#django.conf.urls.i18n.i18n_patterns).

Default language is set in settings.LANGUAGE_CODE.

There are two modes:

 1. `settings.SOLID_I18N_USE_REDIRECTS` = False (default). In that case i18n
 will not use redirects at all. If request doesn't have language prefix,
 then default language will be used. If request does have prefix, language
 from that prefix will be used.

 2. `settings.LANGUAGE_CODE = True`. In that case, for root paths (without
 prefix), django will [try to discover](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#how-django-discovers-language-preference) user preferred language. If it doesn't equal to default language, redirect to path with corresponding
 prefix will occur. If preferred language is the same as default, then that request
 path will be processed (without redirect).

Supports django 1.4, 1.5; python 2.6, 2.7.


Quick start
-----------

1. Install this package to your python distribution:

        - pip install git+https://github.com/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls.git

        or

        - git clone https://github.com/st4lk/django-solid-i18n-urls
        - cd django-solid-i18n-urls
        - python setup.py install

2. Set languages in settings.py:

        # Default language, that will be used for requests without language prefix
        LANGUAGE_CODE = 'en'

        # supported languages
        LANGUAGES = (
            ('en', 'English'),
            ('ru', 'Russian'),
        )

        # enable django translation
        USE_I18N = True

        # Optional. If you want to use redirects, set this to True
        SOLID_I18N_USE_REDIRECTS = False

3. Add `SolidLocaleMiddleware` instead of [LocaleMiddleware](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#how-django-discovers-language-preference) to `MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`:

        MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
           'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware',
           'solid_i18n.middleware.SolidLocaleMiddleware',
           'django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
        )

4. Use `solid_i18n_patterns` instead of [i18n_patterns](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#django.conf.urls.i18n.i18n_patterns)

        from django.conf.urls import patterns, include, url
        from solid_i18n.urls import solid_i18n_patterns

        urlpatterns = patterns(''
            url(r'^sitemap\.xml$', 'sitemap.view', name='sitemap_xml'),
        )

        news_patterns = patterns(''
            url(r'^$', 'news.views.index', name='index'),
            url(r'^category/(?P<slug>[\w-]+)/$', 'news.views.category', name='category'),
            url(r'^(?P<slug>[\w-]+)/$', 'news.views.details', name='detail'),
        )

        urlpatterns += solid_i18n_patterns('',
            url(r'^about/$', 'about.view', name='about'),
            url(r'^news/', include(news_patterns, namespace='news')),
        )

5. Start the development server and visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/about/ to see English content. Visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/ru/about/ to see Russian content. If `SOLID_I18N_USE_REDIRECTS` was set to `True` and if your preferred language is equal to Russian, request to path http://127.0.0.1:8000/about/ will be redirected to http://127.0.0.1:8000/ru/about/. But if preferred language is English, http://127.0.0.1:8000/about/ will be shown.

Of course, you must specify translation for all languages you've marked as supported. For details look here: [https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/).
